feat: add documentation on how to embed external repos to DevHub (#1402)
shopware/docs: resources/guidelines/documentation-guidelines/07-embedding-external-repositories.md

# Embedding external repositories

This guide will explain how to embed project documentation from your repository into the [Developer documentation](https://developer.shopware.com/frontends/).

[Developer Portal](https://github.com/shopware/developer-portal) is built using the [`shopware/developer-documentation-vitepress`](https://github.com/shopware/developer-documentation-vitepress) repository (`vitepress-shopware-docs` package). This setup heavily utilizes [Vitepress](https://vitepress.dev/) and incorporates custom Shopware features such as unique design, breadcrumbs, Algolia search, Copilot AI chat and recommendations, auto-built sidebar and more.

This portal serves as a central hub for all developer resources and documentation. However, the actual content is distributed across various repositories but integrated into the developer portal using the [Docs CLI](https://github.com/shopware/developer-documentation-vitepress/blob/main/CLI.md). This approach allows for decentralized content management, enabling the maintainers of each repository to manage their content independently.

> ## Local instance of the Developer Portal

Author: ```suggestion
## Configure Developer Portal
```

> ## Local instance of the Developer Portal

Author: Actually, `Configure Developer Portal` seems to be the right title here. This section combines cloning `developer-portal` (which could be done already) and applying changes needed to embed your new repo. Next section `Configure your repository` describes changes needed in the embedded repo.

To set up your local instance of the developer portal, clone Developer Portal repository and install the dependencies:

```bash
cd /www/shopware/
git clone https://github.com/shopware/developer-portal.git
cd developer-portal
pnpm i
```

> We also want to create a new branch.

Author: ```suggestion
We also want to create a new branch so we can test the integration first in the pull request, then merge it to the `main` branch and do production deployment.
```

> We also want to create a new branch.

Author: Because we want to test the integration first in the PR, then merge it to `main` branch and do production deployment.

```bash
git checkout -b feature/embed-meteor-icon-kit
```

### Docs CLI

Docs CLI is now accessible by running `./docs-cli` in the root of the `shopware/developer-portal` repository.

> To start embedding a new repository, update `.vitepress/portal.json` and create a new entry in the `repositories` array. Then run the CLI and see if your repository is visible in the list - select it and continue by confirming the default settings.

Author: First step is done in IDE. Command for second step is below.

```bash
./docs-cli manage
```

You should be able to preview your new content by running the Vitepress dev server and opening your defined URL in the browser.

```bash
pnpm dev
```

### Sidebar and main navigation

The content is already there and published, but in most cases you'll also want to have a sidebar dedicated for your section.

Open `.vitepress/navigation.ts` and update `sublinks` and `ignore` parameters to auto-build the sidebar based on your directory structure and frontmatter config.

If you also want to add it to the top-bar main menu, update the `navigation` accordingly.

### Algolia search

> By default, contents are grouped under `General` section in the Algolia search using Algolia _facets_. You can configure that and group your articles together into a new section, or even create multiple new sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, contents are grouped under `General` section in the Algolia search using `Algolia _facets_`. You can configure that and group your articles together into a new section, or even create multiple new sections.
```

Author: Algolia is name of the company/product, and _facets_ is their term for tags or additional metadata. Because it's a term, it feels like it should stay _italic_.

You can do that by updating `const embeds: SwagEmbedsConfig[]`.

```js
const embeds: SwagEmbedsConfig[] = [
    // ...
    {
        repository: 'meteor',
        points: {
            '/resources/meteor-icon-kit/': 'main',
        },
        folder: 'packages/icon-kit/docs',
    },
]
```

### Optional

#### Copilot AI 

Update `themeConfig.swag.similarArticles.filter` with your settings for recommended articles in Copilot AI. This is only needed for repositories that are embedding multiple branches (versions) so that Copilot only uses articles from one version at the time.

#### Version switcher

Update `themeConfig.swag.versionSwitcher` with additional settings for your paths when you are embedding multiple branches (versions) from the same repository. This allows users to switch between different versions of the same article.

#### Color coding

Update `themeConfig.swag.colorCoding` with your settings for color coding in the breadcrumbs. This is currently only used for Plugins and Apps in the `docs` repository.

#### Static assets

> When you also want to share static assets from your repository such as .pdf or .zip files (excluding statically linked images in articles), make sure to copy them in the `buildEnd` hook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you also want to share static assets from your repository such as `.pdf` or `.zip` files (excluding statically linked images in articles), make sure to copy them in the `buildEnd` hook.
```

```js
export default {
    // ...
    async buildEnd() {
        // ...
        await copyAdditionalAssets([
            // meteor-icon-kit
            {
                src: './resources/meteor-icon-kit/public/icons/regular',
                dst: 'icons/regular',
            }
        ])
    }
}
```

### Production deployment

> While we already added the repository to the Docs CLI, it's not included in the production build by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we already added the repository to the Docs CLI, it is not included in the production build by default.
```

> The new repository needs to be activated in `.github/scripts/mount.sh`. This script is needed to apply correct build config in production build and during PR workflows where custom `branch` or even `org` are used and switched to by overwriting environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new repository must to be activated in `.github/scripts/mount.sh`. This script is needed to apply correct build config in production build and during PR workflows where custom `branch` or even `org` is used and switched to by overwriting environment variables.
```

```sh
# ...
BRANCH_METEOR_ICON_KIT=main
ORG_METEOR_ICON_KIT=shopware

# ...
./docs-cli.cjs clone \
 --ci \
 --repository shopware/meteor \
 --branch ${BRANCH_METEOR_ICON_KIT:-main} \
 --src packages/icon-kit/docs \
 --dst resources/meteor-icon-kit \
 --org ${ORG_METEOR_ICON_KIT:-shopware} \
 --root ../..
```

## Configure your repository

Last step includes configuring your repository for better developer experience and integration with the Developer Portal. Let's switch to your repository.

```bash
cd ../docs
# or
cd /www/shopware/docs
```

### Shortcuts

> You'll want to create at least 3 scripts in `package.json` of your repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will want to create at least 3 scripts in `package.json` of your repository
```

 - `docs:preview` - Run Vitepress dev server from your local `developer-portal` instance.

Examples are available in [meteor](https://github.com/shopware/meteor/src/blob/package.json) (monorepo setup), [meteor](https://github.com/shopware/frontends/src/blob/package.json), [meteor](https://github.com/shopware/release-notes/src/blob/package.json) and [meteor](https://github.com/shopware/docs/src/blob/package.json) repositories (all standard repos).

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "docs:env": "[ -d \"../developer-portal\" ] && ../developer-portal/docs-cli.cjs pull || (git clone git@github.com:shopware/developer-portal.git ../developer-portal && pnpm i -C ../developer-portal)",
    "docs:link": "../developer-portal/docs-cli.cjs link --src . --dst docs --symlink",
    "docs:preview": "../developer-portal/docs-cli.cjs preview"
  }
}
```

### CI pipelines

It is recommended for external repositories to also set up the same workflows as in the `docs` and other repos - this includes the same checks and deployment triggers. This way, the repositories are in sync and the developer portal is consistent.

> This usually means copy/pasting `deploy-developer-portal.yml`, `update-healthcheck.yml` and `developer-portal-healthcheck.yml` workflows from any of the repositories mentioned above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This usually means copy-pasting `deploy-developer-portal.yml`, `update-healthcheck.yml` and `developer-portal-healthcheck.yml` workflows from any of the repositories mentioned above.
```

Make sure to also add `DEV_HUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN` secret to your repository.

## Commit changes and create a PR

Once you have everything set up, commit your changes and create PRs for the `shopware/developer-portal` and your repository.

> Usually, you'll want to first preview the docs from the feature branch of your repository inside the Developer portal. You can do that by changing the environment variable of the default branch for your repository in the `.github/scripts/mount.sh` inside the `developer-portal`, review changes, and then switch back to `main` branch before merging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually, you will want to first preview the docs from the feature branch of your repository inside the Developer portal. You can do that by changing the environment variable of the default branch for your repository in the `.github/scripts/mount.sh` inside the `developer-portal`, review changes, and then switch back to `main` branch before merging.
```

For example, follow the instructions in the article above, and use the feature branch of your repository in production build.

```bash
BRANCH_METEOR_ICON_KIT=feature/embed-meteor-repo-to-developer-portal
```

```
cd /www/shopware/developer-portal/
git checkout -b feature/embeds-meteor-icon-kit
# apply changes
git commit -m "feat: embedded meteor repo"
```

> Make changes in your feature branch in your repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make changes in your feature branch of your repository.
```
